README.md, before:

# SPEAR

Welcome to SPEAR, the 
**S**tatic **P**redictive **E**nergy **A**nalysis Tool based on Intel **R**APL.

The tool will be developed for my bachelor-thesis
**"Predictive, static energy consumption analysis based on experimentally determined energy models"**

## Introduction

Modern computers, especially in high computing applications require a lot of energy.
Data centers, which handle all of our modern Cloud-Infrastructure, are trying to save every last bit of energy to reduce costs.
Even though energy seems to be a problematic factor regarding cost and environment, most
developers are not well aware about the energy-consumption of their software. Either trough missing information about their
used architecture or through the abstraction their used language implements.

To work towards filling this knowledge-gap, this bachelor-thesis will try to develop a tool
for static analysis of LLVM-IR Code which will get populated with energy-consumption profiling
from the Intel RAPL Interface.

## Running the profiler

Before running an analysis with spear, you have to profile your device with the built-in profiler.
You have to compile the profile-scripts for your machine. We provided a shell-script to simplify this step.
Run the script `irToBinary.sh` in the `profile/` folder

After the compilation run spear with the flag `-p` and provide the number of iterations and repetitions.
E.g.:

```
spear -p 100 100
```

Please choose the parameters for iterations and repetitions accordingly to your setup.

## Running an Analysis

We implemented two ways to run the analysis. Before the analysis make sure, you compiled your program with the following
parameters:

```
clang++ -O0 -Xclang -disable-O0-optnone -fno-discard-value-names -S -emit-llvm <file>
```
Where `<file>` is the source-file you want to analyze.
Please compile your source-file with this command,
otherwise the behaviour of spear will be undefined or the analysis will crash.

### 1) Using Spear

Spear provided a custom flag `-a`, which expects the following parameters:

```
spear -a <modelpath> 
      --mode <mode> 
      --format <format> 
      --strategy <strategy> 
      --loopbound <loopbound> 
      <llvmirpath>
```

`<modelpath>`: Path to a model calculated by spear with the `-p` flag

`<mode>`: Mode the analysis should run on. Choose between the following options
- `function` - Analyses every function by itself. Takes no respect to calls
- `program` - Analyses the whole program with respect to calls.

`<format>`: Outputformat to print after the calculation. Choose between the following options
- `json` - Json-Format
- `plain` - Human-readable plaintext

`<strategy>`: Analysis-strategy to calculate. Choose between the following options
- `worst` - Worstcase-analysis. Will take path with the most energy consumption, when calculating an if-condition
- `best` - Bestcase-analysis. Will take path with the least energy consumption, when calculating an if-condition
- `average` - Chooses a random path, when calculating an if-condition

`<loopbound>`: A positive integer defining a value, loops will be over-approximated, if spear can't interfere the iteration count from a loop. E.g. in a while-loop

`<llvmirpath>` Path to compiled llvm-ir file, the analysis should run on

### 2) Using the LLVM pass

We provided a custom LLVM pass to run with the `opt` tool. To run the analysis, use the following preset:

```
opt -disable-output 
    -load-pass-plugin <libpath>
    --passes="function(instnamer,mem2reg,loop-simplify,loop-rotate),energy"
    --model <modelpath>
    --mode <mode> 
    --format <format> 
    --strategy <strategy> 
    --loopbound <loopbound>
    <llvmirpath>
```

`<libpath>`: Path to the compiled energy-library `Energy.so`

`<modelpath>`: Path to a model calculated by spear with the `-p` flag

`<mode>`: Mode the analysis should run on. Choose between the following options
- `function` - Analyses every function by itself. Takes no respect to calls
- `program` - Analyses the whole program with respect to calls.

`<format>`: Outputformat to print after the calculation. Choose between the following options
- `json` - Json-Format
- `plain` - Human-readable plaintext

`<strategy>`: Analysis-strategy to calculate. Choose between the following options
- `worst` - Worstcase-analysis. Will take path with the most energy consumption, when calculating an if-condition
- `best` - Bestcase-analysis. Will take path with the least energy consumption, when calculating an if-condition
- `average` - Chooses a random path, when calculating an if-condition

`<loopbound>`: A positive integer defining a value, loops will be over-approximated, if spear can't interfere the iteration count from a loop. E.g. in a while-loop

`<llvmirpath>` Path to compiled llvm-ir file, the analysis should run on

Commit message:

Removed some files which are not needed anymore. Updated the README.md

README.md, after:

# SPEAR

Welcome to SPEAR, the 
**S**tatic **P**redictive **E**nergy **A**nalysis Tool based on Intel **R**APL.

The tool will be developed for my bachelor-thesis
**"Predictive, static energy consumption analysis based on experimentally determined energy models"**

## Introduction

Modern computers, especially in high computing applications require a lot of energy.
Data centers, which handle all of our modern Cloud-Infrastructure, are trying to save every last bit of energy to reduce costs.
Even though energy seems to be a problematic factor regarding cost and environment, most
developers are not well aware about the energy-consumption of their software. Either trough missing information about their
used architecture or through the abstraction their used language implements.

To work towards filling this knowledge-gap, this bachelor-thesis will try to develop a tool
for static analysis of LLVM-IR Code which will get populated with energy-consumption profiling
from the Intel RAPL Interface.

## Running the profiler

Before running an analysis with spear, you have to profile your device with the built-in profiler.
You have to compile the profile-scripts for your machine. We provided a shell-script to simplify this step.
Run the script `utils/llvmToBinary/irToBinary.sh` and provide the path to the profile-folder e.g `../../profile/src`
as argument to prepare the files. 

After the compilation run spear with the flag `-p` and provide the number of iterations and repetitions.
E.g.:

```
spear -p 100 100
```

Please choose the parameters for iterations and repetitions accordingly to your setup.
Larger iterations will increase the accuracy of the calculated model, but will also increase the time to profiler runs.

## Running an Analysis

We implemented two ways to run the analysis. Before the analysis make sure, you compiled your program with the following
script we provided:

```
util/llvmToBinary/cppToBinary.sh <path>
```

Where `<path>` is the path to your program-files. The script will compile all `.cpp` files in the given path
Please compile your source-files with this script,
otherwise the behaviour of spear will be undefined or the analysis will crash.

### 1) Using Spear

Spear provided a custom flag `-a`, which expects the following parameters:

```
spear -a <modelpath> 
      --mode <mode> 
      --format <format> 
      --strategy <strategy> 
      --loopbound <loopbound> 
      <llvmirpath>
```

`<modelpath>`: Path to a model calculated by spear with the `-p` flag

`<mode>`: Mode the analysis should run on. Choose between the following options
- `function` - Analyses every function by itself. Takes no respect to calls
- `program` - Analyses the whole program with respect to calls.

`<format>`: Outputformat to print after the calculation. Choose between the following options
- `json` - Json-Format
- `plain` - Human-readable plaintext

`<strategy>`: Analysis-strategy to calculate. Choose between the following options
- `worst` - Worstcase-analysis. Will take path with the most energy consumption, when calculating an if-condition
- `best` - Bestcase-analysis. Will take path with the least energy consumption, when calculating an if-condition
- `average` - Chooses a random path, when calculating an if-condition

`<loopbound>`: A positive integer defining a value, loops will be over-approximated, if spear can't interfere the iteration count from a loop. E.g. in a while-loop

`<llvmirpath>` Path to compiled llvm-ir file, the analysis should run on

### 2) Using the LLVM pass

We provided a custom LLVM pass to run with the `opt` tool. To run the analysis, use the following preset:

```
opt -disable-output 
    -load-pass-plugin <libpath>
    --passes="function(instnamer,mem2reg,loop-simplify,loop-rotate),energy"
    --model <modelpath>
    --mode <mode> 
    --format <format> 
    --strategy <strategy> 
    --loopbound <loopbound>
    <llvmirpath>
```

`<libpath>`: Path to the compiled energy-library `Energy.so`

`<modelpath>`: Path to a model calculated by spear with the `-p` flag

`<mode>`: Mode the analysis should run on. Choose between the following options
- `function` - Analyses every function by itself. Takes no respect to calls
- `program` - Analyses the whole program with respect to calls.

`<format>`: Outputformat to print after the calculation. Choose between the following options
- `json` - Json-Format
- `plain` - Human-readable plaintext

`<strategy>`: Analysis-strategy to calculate. Choose between the following options
- `worst` - Worstcase-analysis. Will take path with the most energy consumption, when calculating an if-condition
- `best` - Bestcase-analysis. Will take path with the least energy consumption, when calculating an if-condition
- `average` - Chooses a random path, when calculating an if-condition

`<loopbound>`: A positive integer defining a value, loops will be over-approximated, if spear can't interfere the iteration count from a loop. E.g. in a while-loop

`<llvmirpath>` Path to compiled llvm-ir file, the analysis should run on
